<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIX</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Cope Again in the Country</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Medora treated Hortense to a few cautious soundings, decided that another locale was the thing to do her good, and sent her South forthwith.</p>
			<p>“It’s a low latitude,” she said to herself; “but it’s a high altitude.<br/>
			The season is late, but she won’t suffer.”</p>
			<p>Hortense, who had been sullen and fractious, met her aunt halfway, and agreed passively when Medora said:</p>
			<p>“It will benefit you to see the spring come on in a new scene and in a new fashion. You will find the mountains more interesting than the dunes.” So Hortense packed her things and joined her friend for a brief sojourn in sight of the Great Smokies.</p>
			<p>Thus, when Medora herself went forth to meet the spring among the sand-hills, she had only Carolyn and the other members of her domestic staff. Yet no simplest weekend without a guest or so, and she asked Cope to accompany them.</p>
			<p>“You need it,” she told him bluntly; “⁠—you need a change, however slight and brief. You are positively thin. You make me wish that thesises⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Theses,” Cope corrected her, rather spiritlessly.</p>
			<p>“—⁠that theses, then, had never been invented. To speak familiarly, you are almost ‘peakèd.’ ”</p>
			<p>Cope, with the first warm days, had gone back to the blue serge suit of the past autumn, and he filled it even less well than before. And his face was thin to correspond.</p>
			<p>“Besides,” she went on, “we need you. It will be a kind of camping-out for a day or two⁠—merely that. We must have your help to pitch the tent, so to speak, and to pick up firewood, and to fry the bacon.⁠ ⁠… And this time,” she added, “you shall not have that long tiresome trip by train. There will be room in the car.”</p>
			<p>She did not attempt to make room for Lemoyne. She was glad to have no need to do so; Lemoyne was deeply engrossed otherwise⁠—“Annabella” and her “antics” were almost ready for the public eye. The first of May would see the performance, and the numerous rehearsals were exacting, whether as regarded the effort demanded or the time. Every spare hour was going into them, as well as many an hour that could hardly be spared. Lemoyne, who had been cast originally for a minor female part, now found himself transferred, through the failure of a principal, to a more important one. For him, then, rehearsals were more exigent than ever. He cut his Psychology once or twice, nor could he succeed, during office hours, in keeping his mind on office-routine. His superiors became impatient and then protestant. The annual spring dislocation of ordered student life was indeed a regular feature of the year’s last term; yet to push indulgence as far as Arthur Lemoyne was pushing it⁠—!</p>
			<p>Cope was concerned; then worried. “Arthur,” he said, “be reasonable about this. You’ve got real work to do, remember.”</p>
			<p>But Lemoyne’s real work was in the musical comedy. “This is the biggest chance I’ve ever had in my life,” he declared, “and I don’t want to lose out on it.”</p>
			<p>So Cope rolled away to the dunes and left Lemoyne behind for one<br/>
			Saturday night rehearsal the more.</p>
			<p>Duneland gave him a tonic welcome. Under a breezy sky the far edge of the lake stood out clear. Along its nearer edge the vivacious waves tumbled noisily. The steady pines were welcoming the fresh early foliage of such companions as dressed and undressed in accord with the calendar; the wrecked trunks which had given up life and its leafy pomps seemed somehow less sombre and stark; and in the threatened woodlands behind the hills a multiplicity of small new greeneries stirred the autumn’s dead leaves and brightened up the thickets of shrubbery. The arbutus had companioned the hepatica, and the squads of the lupines were busily preparing their panoply of lavender-blue racemes. Nature was breaking bounds. On the inland horizon rose the vast bulk of the prison. As on other excursions, nobody tried too hard to see it.</p>
			<p>“It’s all too lovely,” exclaimed Medora Phillips. “And what is quite as good,” she was able to declare, “the house itself is all right.” Winter had not weakened its roof nor wrenched away its storm-windows; no irresponsible wayfarer had used it for a lodging, nor had any casual marauder entered to despoil. Medora directed the disposition of the hamper of food with a relieved air and sent Cope down with Peter for an armful or two of driftwood from the assertive shore.</p>
			<p>“And you, Carolyn,” she said, “see if the oil-stove will really go.”</p>
			<p>Down on the beach itself, where the past winter’s waste was still profusely spread, Cope rose to the greening hills, to the fresh sweep of the wind, and to the sun-shot green and purple streakings over the water. The wind, in particular, took its own way: dry light sand, blown from higher shelvings, striped the dark wet edges of the shore; and every bending blade of sandgrass drew a circle about itself with its own revolving tip.</p>
			<p>Cope let the robust and willing Peter pick up most of the firewood and himself luxuriated in the spacious world round about him. Yes, a winter had flown⁠—or, at any rate, had passed⁠—and here he was again. There had been annoyances, but now he felt a wide and liberal relief. Here, for example, was the special stretch of shore on which Amy Leffingwell had praised his singing and had hinted her desire to accompany him⁠—but never mind that. Farther on was the particular tract where Hortense Dunton had pottered with her watercolors and had harried him with the heroines of eighteenth century fiction⁠—but never mind that, either. All those things were past, and he was free. Nobody remained save Carolyn Thorpe, an unaggressive girl with whom one could really trust oneself and with whom one could walk, if required, in comfort and content. Cope threw up his head to the hills and threw out his chest to the winds, and laid quick hands on a short length of weather-beaten hemlock plank. “Afraid I’m not holding up my end,” he said to Peter.</p>
			<p>At the house again, he found that Carolyn had brought the oil-stove back into service, and, with Helga, had cast the cloth over the table and had set some necessary dishes on it. He fetched a pail or two of water from the pump, and each time placed a fresh young half-grown sassafras leaf on the surface. “The trademark of our bottling-works,” he said facetiously; “to show that our products are pure.” And Carolyn, despite his facetiousness, felt more than ever that he might easily become a poet. Medora viewed the floating leaves with indulgent appreciation. “But don’t let’s cumber ourselves with many cares,” she suggested; “we are here to make the best of the afternoon. Let’s out and away⁠—the sooner the better.”</p>
			<p>The three soon set forth for a stroll through spring’s reviving domain. Cope walked between Medora and Carolyn, or ahead of them, impartially sweeping away twigs and flowering branches from before their faces. The young junipers were putting forth tender new tips; the bright leaves of the sassafras shone forth against the pines. Above the newly-rounded tops of the oaks and maples in the valley below them the Three Witches rose gauntly; and off on their far hill the two companion pines⁠—(how had he named them? Romeo and Juliet? Pelleas and Melisande?)⁠—still lay their dark heads together in mysterious confidences under the heightening glow of the late afternoon sun. Carolyn looked from them back to Cope and gave him a shy smile.</p>
			<p>He did not quite smile back. Carolyn was well enough, however. She was suitably dressed for a walk. Her shoes were sensible, and so was her hair. Amy had run to fluffiness. Hortense had often favored heavy waves and emphatic bandeaux. But Carolyn’s hair was drawn back plainly from her forehead, and was gathered in a small, low-set knot. “Still, it’s no concern of mine,” he reminded himself, and walked on ahead.</p>
			<p>Carolyn’s sensible shoes brought her back, with the others, at twilight. The three took up rather ornamentally (with aid from Peter and Helga) the lighter details of housekeeping. Toward the end of the stroll, Cope and Carolyn⁠—perhaps upon the mere unconscious basis of youth⁠—had rather fallen in together, and Medora Phillips, once or twice, had had to safeguard for herself her face and eyesight from the young trees that bordered their path. But that evening, as they sat on a settle before the driftwood fire, Medora took pains to place herself in the middle. Carolyn was a sweet young flower, doubtless⁠—humbler, possibly, than Amy or Hortense; yet she too perhaps must be extirpated, gently but firmly, from the garden of desire.</p>
			<p>“You look better already,” Medora said to Cope. “You’ll go back tomorrow a new man.”</p>
			<p>Her elbow was on the back of the settle and close to his shoulder. His face caught the glow from the fire.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I’m all right, I assure you,” he said.</p>
			<p>“You <em>do</em> look better,” observed Carolyn on her own account. “This air is everything. Only a few hours of it⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Another bit of wood on the fire, if you please, Carolyn,” said her patroness.</p>
			<p>“Let me do it,” said Cope. He rose quickly and laid on a stick or two. He remained standing on the edge of the glow. He hoped nobody would say again that he was looking rather thin and pale.</p>
			<p>“And what is <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Lemoyne doing this evening?” presently asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Phillips in a dreamy undertone. Her manner was casual and negligent; her voice was low and leisurely. She seemed to place Lemoyne at a distance of many, many leagues. “Rehearsing, I suppose?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” replied Cope. “This new play has absorbed him completely.”</p>
			<p>“He will do well?”</p>
			<p>“He always does. He always has.”</p>
			<p>“Men in girls’ parts are so amusing,” said Carolyn. “Their walk is so heavy and clumsy, even if their dancing isn’t. And when they speak up in those big deep bass and baritone voices⁠ ⁠… !”</p>
			<p>“Arthur will speak in a light tenor.”</p>
			<p>“Will his walk be heavy and clumsy?” asked <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Phillips.</p>
			<p>“He is an artist,” replied Cope.</p>
			<p>“Not too much of one, I trust,” she returned. “I confess I like boys best in such parts when they frankly and honestly seem to be boys. That’s half the fun⁠—and nine-tenths of the taste.”</p>
			<p>“Taste?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, taste. Short for good taste. There’s a great deal of room for bad. A thing may be done too thoroughly. Once or twice I’ve seen it done that way, by⁠—artists.”</p>
			<p>Cope, in the half-light, seemed rather unhappy.</p>
			<p>“He finds time for⁠—for all this⁠—this technique?” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Phillips asked.</p>
			<p>“He’s very clever,” replied Cope, rather unhappy still. “It does take time, of course. I’m concerned,” he added.</p>
			<p>“About his other work?”</p>
			<p>“Yes.” He stepped aside a little into the shadow.</p>
			<p>“Come back to your place,” said Medora Phillips. “You look quite spectral.”</p>
			<p>Cope, with a light sigh, returned to his post on the settle and to his share in the firelight. Silence fell. From far below were heard the active waves, moaning themselves to rest. And a featureless evening moved on slowly.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
