<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Cope Regains His Freedom</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>On Friday evening Randolph, at home, was glancing now and then at the clock (as on a previous occasion), while waiting for Cope. At eight-fifteen the telephone rang; it was Cope, with excuses, as before. He was afraid he should be unable to come; some unexpected work⁠ ⁠… It was that autumn excursion all over again.</p>
			<p>Randolph hung up the receiver, with some impatience. Still, never mind; if Cope would make no effort to save himself, others were making the effort for him. He had considerable confidence in George Pearson’s state of mind, as well as in George’s egoism and drive.</p>
			<p>Foster heard of Cope’s new delinquency, through Randolph’s own reluctant admission. “He is an ingrate, after all,” said Foster savagely, and gave his wheels an exceptionally violent jerk. And Randolph made little effort, this time, toward Cope’s defense.</p>
			<p>“You’ve done so much for him,” Foster went on; “and you’re willing to do so much more.”</p>
			<p>“I <em>could</em> do a great deal, of course. There may be a good reason this time, too,” said Randolph soberly.</p>
			<p>“Humph!” returned Foster.</p>
			<p>Cope had hung up the receiver to turn toward Lemoyne and to say: “I really ought to have gone.”</p>
			<p>“Wait until I can go with you,” Lemoyne insisted, as he had been insisting just before. The still unseen man of Indian Rock was again the subject of his calculations.</p>
			<p>“You’ve been asked,” Cope submitted. “He has been very friendly to me, and I am sure he would be the same to you.”</p>
			<p>“I think that, personally, I can get along without him,” the other muttered ungraciously to himself.</p>
			<p>Aloud he said: “As I’ve told you, I’ve got the president of the dramatic club to see tonight, and it’s high time that I was leaving.” He looked with intention at the desk which had superseded that old table, with ink-stained cover, at which Cope had once worked. “You can use a little time to advantage over those themes. I’ll be back within an hour.”</p>
			<p>Lemoyne had entered for Psychology, and was hoping that he now enjoyed the status necessary for participation in the college theatricals. But he was relying still more on a sudden defection or lapse which had left the dramatic club without a necessary actor at a critical time. “It’s me, or postponement,” he said; “and I think it’s me.” The new opportunity⁠—or bare chance⁠—loomed before him with immensity. Cope’s affair might wait. He would even risk Cope’s running over to Randolph’s place alone.</p>
			<p>Cope seated himself at his desk with loyalty, or at least with docility; and Lemoyne, putting on his hat and coat, started out for the fraternity house where the president of the club was in residence.</p>
			<p>Five minutes after Lemoyne’s departure Cope heard the telephone ringing downstairs, and presently a patient, middle-aged man knocked at the door and told him the call was for him.</p>
			<p>Cope sighed apprehensively and went down. Of course it was Amy. Would he not come over for an hour? Everybody was away, and they could have a quiet talk together.</p>
			<p>Cope, conscious of others in the house, replied cautiously. Lemoyne, he said, had gone out and left him with a deskful of themes: tiresome routine work, but necessary, and immensely absorptive of time. He was afraid that he could scarcely come this evening.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>Amy’s voice took on a new tone. Why, she seemed to be feeling, must Arthur Lemoyne be mentioned, and mentioned so early? Yet Bertram had put him⁠—instinctively, unconsciously⁠—at the head of the little verbal procession just begun.</p>
			<p>Cope’s response was dry and meagre; free speech was impossible over a lodging-house telephone set in the public hall. Amy, who knew little of Cope’s immediate surroundings at the moment, went on in accents of protest and of grievance, and Cope went on replying in a half-hushed voice as non-committally as he was able. He dwelt more and more on the trying details of his work in words which conveyed no additional information to any fellow-dwellers who might overhear.</p>
			<p>“You haven’t been to see me for a week,” came Amy’s voice petulantly, indignantly.</p>
			<p>“I’m very sorry, I’m sure,” returned Cope in a carefully generalized tone of suavity. It was successful with the spinster in the side room above, but it was no tone to use with a protesting <i>fiancee</i>.</p>
			<p>“Why do you neglect me so?” Amy’s voice proceeded, with no shade of appeasement.</p>
			<p>“There is no intention of that,” replied Cope; “⁠—so far as I know,” he added, for ears about or above.</p>
			<p>Again Amy’s tone changed. It took on a tang of anger, and also a curious ring of finality⁠—as if, suddenly, a last resolution had been reached. “Good night,” she said abruptly, and the interview was over.</p>
			<p>Cope forgot Randolph, and Lemoyne, and his themes. Lemoyne, returning within the hour, found him seated at his desk in self-absorbed depression, his work untouched.</p>
			<p>“Well, they’ve taken me,” he began; “and I shall have a fairly good part.” Cope made no effort to respond to the other’s glowing self-satisfaction, but sat with thoughtful, downcast eyes at his desk before the untouched themes. “What’s the matter?” asked Lemoyne. “Has she been calling up again?”</p>
			<p>Cope raised his head and gave him a look. Lemoyne saw that his very first guess had been correct.</p>
			<p>“This is a gay life!” he broke out; “just the life I have come down here to lead. You’re making yourself miserable, and you’re making me miserable. It’s got to end.”</p>
			<p>Cope gave him a second woeful glance.</p>
			<p>“Write to her, breaking it off,” prompted Lemoyne. “Draft a letter tonight.”</p>
			<p>His mind was full of <i>cliches</i> from his reading and his “scripts.” He had heard all the necessary things said: in fact, had said them himself⁠—now in evening dress, now in hunting costume, now in the loose habiliments of Pierrot⁠—time and time again. The dissatisfied <i>fiance</i> need but say that he could not feel, after all, that they were as well suited to each other as they ought to be, that he could not bring himself to believe that his feeling for her was what love really should be, and that⁠—⁠</p>
			<p>Thus, with a multiplicity of “that’s,” they accomplished a rough draft which might be restudied and used on the morrow. “There!” said Lemoyne to the weary Cope at eleven o’clock; “it ought to have been written a month ago.”</p>
			<p>Cope languidly slipped the oft-amended sheet under his pile of themes and in a spent voice suggested bed.</p>
			<p>Over night and through the following forenoon the draft lay on his desk. When he returned to his room at three o’clock a note, which had been delivered by hand, awaited him. It was from Amy Leffingwell.</p>
			<p>Cope read it, folded his arms on his desk, bowed his head on his arms, and, being alone, gave a half-sob. Then he lifted his head, with face illumined and soul refreshed. Amy had asked for an end to their engagement.</p>
			<p>“What does she say?” asked Lemoyne, an hour later.</p>
			<p>“She says what you say!” exclaimed Cope with shining eyes and a trace of half-hysteric bravado. “She does not feel that we are quite so well suited to each other as we ought to be, nor that her feeling toward me is what love really⁠ ⁠… Can she have been in dramatics too!”</p>
			<p>“Your letter,” returned Lemoyne, with dignity, “would have been understood.”</p>
			<p>“Quite so,” Cope acknowledged, in a kind of exultant excitation. He caught the rough draft from his desk⁠—it was all seared with new emendations⁠—tore it up, and threw the fragments into the waste-basket. “Thank Heaven, I haven’t had to send it!” In a moment, “What am I to write now?” he asked with irony.</p>
			<p>“The next will be easier,” returned Lemoyne, still with dignity.</p>
			<p>“It will,” replied Cope.</p>
			<p>It was⁠—so much easier that it became but an elegant literary exercise. A few touches of nobility, a few more of elegiac regret, and it was ready at nine that night for the letter-box. Cope dropped it in with an iron clang and walked back to his quarters a free man.</p>
			<p>A few days later Lemoyne, working for his new play, met Amy Leffingwell in the music-alcove of the University library. She had removed her gloves with their furry wristlets, and he saw that she had a ring on the third finger of her left hand. Its scintillations made a stirring address to his eye.</p>
			<p>Cope heard about the ring that evening, and about Amy Leffingwell’s engagement to George Pearson the next day.</p>
			<p>He had no desire to dramatize the scene of Pearson’s advance, assault and victory, nor to visualize the setting up of the monument by which that victory was commemorated. Lemoyne did it for him.</p>
			<p>Pearson had probably indulged in some disparagement of Cope⁠—a phase on which Lemoyne, as a faithful friend, did not dwell. But he clearly saw George taking Amy’s hand, on which there was still no ring, and declaring that she should be wearing one before tomorrow night. He figured both George and Amy as rather glad that Cope had not given one, and as more and more inclining, with the passage of the days, to the comfortable feeling that there had never been any real engagement at all.</p>
			<p>Lemoyne attempted to put some of his visualizings before Cope, but Cope cut him short. “Now I will settle down to work on my thesis,” he said, “and get my degree at the June convocation.”</p>
			<p>“Good,” said Lemoyne; “and now I can get my mind on the club.” He went to the window and looked out on the night. The stars were a-glitter. “Let’s take a turn round the block before we turn in.”</p>
			<p>They spent ten minutes in the clear winter air. As Cope, on their return, stooped to put his latch-key to use, Lemoyne impulsively threw an arm across his shoulder. “Everything is all right, now,” he said, in a tone of high gratification; and Urania, through the whole width of her starry firmament, looked down kindly upon a happier household.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
